# VolleyPong
This project replicates Pong, the table tennis–themed arcade video game originally released by Atari in 1972. The game's theme fo is singles volleyball played between two opponents (i.e. one blue player and one red player). One of the players is the user while the other is an AI. The challenge in implementing an AI user is the balance between make the AI skilled enough to pose a challenge while simultaniously easy enough to be beatable. Sometimes it is unknown whether or not an AI opponent has the potential to beat a human user. This problem does not arise in Pong because of its limited degrees of freedom. An unbeatable AI user could be made simply by having the user track the balls motion perfectly. In this case the discrepancy between the speed of the ball and the speed of the AI's paddle makes the game winable by the user. The object of the game is to score 5 points (win by 2) by hitting the ball aganist the opponents vertical wall. he scripts from this game are based on the scripts from the pong tutorial ( i.e. https://www.awesomeinc.org/tutorials/unity-pong/) and and various Unity and C# resource pages ( e.g. https://docs.unity3d.com/ScriptReference/Vector3.html). These scripts are modified according to the requirements and specifications needed for this version of Pong. The mechanics of the game are similar to the original Pong video game. That is, the game consists of two paddles and one ball.  The game is single player, where one user controls a single paddle and is playing against an AI with one level of difficulty. At the top of the screen a restart button is present. It resets the scores to zero, and reorients the paddles and ball to their original position. Certain mechanics of the game have been updated from the original version of Pong in order to make the game more consistent with the game's "volleyball" theme. The user controlled paddle  has the option to move in the x and y directions rather than soley the x direction. This reflects the mechanics of volleyball where the player is free to move around the court. The user paddle is also free to move outside the confines of the court. As in volleyball there is no inherent advantage to moving out the confines and therefore the movement is permitted. Unlike the user's paddle, the AI paddle mimics the balls motion but is constrained to the y-direction. By limiting the degrees of freedom of the AI's paddle it makes the AI easier to beat and the game more enjoyable. Each of the new design features enforce the volleyball theme. The updated design includes an a background volleyball court, volleyball, judge's chair, spectators, scoreboard, and win message. It was a challenge to find the  appropriate  vector images for the objects needed to reflect the theme of the game because many images exist behind a paywall. Additionally, scalling the scoreboard, reset button, and win message  based on the dimensions of the monitor that the game was being played on was challenging. The dimensions must be based on values relative to the size of the string, while hard coding the values can lead to an unplayable game. Effectively using the Unity game engine to mimic certain aspects of physical reality while ignoreing others is challening. For instance, the speed, radius, and mass of the ball all needed be changed relative to each other in order to provide enjoyable gameplay





